For this exercise, you are asked to think like a landlord of a small apartment complex.
What business model does a landlord most resemble?
What KPIs could a landlord track?
What are the North Star KPIs,
that should lead a landlords evaluation of his business performance?
Let's dive in. Question one.
Which business model discussed in this section seems most similar to renting apartments?
Why? Remember that a business model relates to how and why a business makes revenue.
Let's compare the situation of a landlord to the three business models we discussed.
First, the E-commerce model.
Is the landlord getting paid once for a product that the customer then keeps forever?
Maybe if the landlord was a real estate agent selling apartments,
but no, his customers are renters who repeatedly pay for access to an apartment.
So e-commerce is not the closest business model.
Next, the Freemium model.
Do landlords allows some renters to
access the apartment for free and only pay for upgrades?
No, not really.
So that is not the most similar.
Finally, the SAAS, or software as a service and subscription models.
Users purchase temporary access to a software.
In the case of an apartment complex, users is renters.
They pay to get access to an apartment for a limited amount of time.
The renters are subscribing to the service of an apartment.
The renters do not own the apartment,
but pay on a regular basis.
At the end of their rental period or subscription term,
they can choose to move to another apartment or to renew their subscription.
So the SAAS model is the closest fit,
even though in this case it is living space,
not software as a service.
Now let's consider a question two.
What KPIs could you measure as a landlord?
As a landlord, different categories of KPIs can be measured.
Even landlords need to decide what to focus on.
For this question, you were asked to think of
a few example KPIs for different categories of concern.
The first category was finding new tenants,
which is similar to acquiring new customers.
An example KPI in this category is time between rentals.
When an apartment isn't being rented,
a landlord isn't making money.
So how fast they can acquire new customers might be an important KPI.
Remember, your solution might have had different KPIs,
but as long as they were measurable and related to the category,
you identified potential KPIs for a landlord.
The second category was renter happiness,
which is similar to customer satisfaction.
An example of this is renter happiness with their apartment complex and maintenance,
which the landlord could measure via a survey.
The third category was repairs and maintenance,
similar to customer support.
An example of this is a number of work orders
which might be similar to the number of customer support tickets received.
The final category was around Revenues and Costs.
Some examples of this would be,
revenue per month from rental fees and net profit revenue after all costs and expenses.
From question two, we know that landlords like data product managers,
face a lot of data and potential KPIs,
but which to focus on?
Question three asks, if you could only choose three,
which KPIs would you choose to focus on as a landlord and why?
Well, the first focus of a landlord or a business is the revenue coming in the door.
So when looking at the data available,
the most valuable is going to be KPIs that either are
revenue or directly impact revenue and potential revenue.
For this reason, you should first focus on revenue or net profit.
Then you should choose KPIs that show whether
that revenue will continue and customers will continue to buy.
As we saw when looking at business models,
customer satisfaction is a leading indicator to show if the product we're
offering is a good fit and people are likely to continue to pay for our product.
So the second KPI would be renters satisfaction,
which is a leading indicator of whether our renter customers will renew,
and a third KPI to focus on would be renewal rates,
the actual rate at which our renter customers choose to repurchase.